1、在电子通信领域，波特（Baud）即调制速率，指的是有效数据信号调制载波的速率，即单位时间内载波调制状态变化的次数。

The symbol rate is related to gross bit rate expressed in bit/s. The term baud has sometimes incorrectly been used to mean bit rate,

since these rates are the same in old modems as well as in the simplest digital communication links using only one bit per symbol, 

such that binary digit "0" is represented by one symbol, and binary digit "1" by another symbol. In more advanced modems and data 

transmission techniques, a symbol may have more than two states, so it may represent more than one bit. A bit (binary digit) always 

represents one of two states.

If N bits are conveyed per symbol, and the gross bit rate is R, inclusive of channel coding overhead, the symbol rate fs can be calculated

as 

             fs=R\N  


By taking information per pulse N in bit/pulse to be the base-2-logarithm of the number of distinct messages M that could be sent, 

Hartley constructed a measure of the gross bitrate R as

             R=fs.N     where  N=log2(M)


In that case M = 2^N, different symbols are used. In a modem, these may be time-limited sinewave tones with unique combinations of 

amplitude, phase and/or frequency. For example, in a 64QAM modem, M = 64, and so the bit rate is N = log2(64) = 6 times the baud rate. 

In a line code, these may be M different voltage levels.

The ratio is not necessarily even an integer; in 4B3T coding, the bit rate is 4/3 of the baud rate. (A typical basic rate interface with

a 160 kbit/s raw data rate operates at 120 kBd.)

Codes with many symbols, and thus a bit rate higher than the symbol rate, are most useful on channels such as telephone lines with a 

limited bandwidth but a high signal-to-noise ratio within that bandwidth. In other applications, the bit rate is less than the symbol 

rate. Eight-to-fourteen modulation as used on audio CDs has bit rate 8/14 of the baud rate.



它是对符号传输速率的一种度量，1波特即指每秒传输1个符号，而通过不同的调制方式，可以在一个码元符号上负载多个bit位信息。


2、“波特”（Baud）本身已是速率，所以不需要写成 Baud Rate（Rate 是赘字）。单位“波特”本身就已经是代表每秒的调制数，以“波特每秒”（Baud per second）为单位

是一种常见的错误，但是在一般中文口语化的沟通上还是常以“波特率”来描述“波特”（Baud）


波特（Baud，单位符号：Bd）这一单位是以法国电讯工程师让·莫里斯·埃米尔·博多（1845-1903）的姓氏来命名的，他是电传与博多式电报机的发明，数位通信的先驱之一。



3、波特率和比特率的区别：

比特率：对信息传输速率（传信率）的度量

波特率：单位时间内传输符号的个数（传符号率）



波特率：是码元传输速率单位，他说明单位时间传输了多少个码元。

     码元(code cell)是携带信息的数字单位，是指在数字信道中传送数字信号的一个波形符号，也即“时间轴上的一个信号编码单元”。码元可能是二进制的，
     
     也可能是多进制的。

比特率：是信息量传送速率单位，即每秒传输二进制代码位数。bit/s

     比特(bit)是“信息量”的计量单位，1位二进制数所携带的信息量即为1bit(比特)，例如，10010110是8位二进制数字，所携带的信息量为8bit。



4、两者关系


Rb=RB·lbM
式中：lbM=log2M，表示M的以2为底的对数。显然，对于二进制码元，由于lb2=1，所以Rb=RB，即波特率与比特率在数值上相等，但单位不同，也即二者代表的意义不同。
例如，波特率为600Bd，则在二进制时，比特率也为600bit/s；在四进制时，由于lb4=2，所以比特率为1200bit/s。可见，在一个码元中可以传送多个比特。

如每秒钟传送240个字符，而每个字符格式包含10位（1个起始位，1个停止位，8个数据位），这时的波特率为240Bd，比特率为10位*240个/秒=2400bps。
